hello it's Ruby and today I'm going to
be sharing with you 25 top tips for
exams but in under five minutes
one thing which can actually be really
useful is to keep a list of what's in my
exam pencil case this just means that
you don't forget anything and it's
really important to bring all of spare
pens the very worst thing is when your
pen runs out halfway through an exam and
if you don't have a spare one yes you
can ask your examiner for one but then
you're just wasting time one thing I
really recommend doing is trying writing
with a variety of different pens
beforehand this way you just find the
one that is most comfortable for you to
write with for a long period of time one
thing I will always do before an exam is
a power pose this is a natural way to
release adrenaline in your body and so
you go into the exam with more
confidence I always just feel I'm in a
better mindset to succeed as soon as
your exam starts it's a good idea just
to flick through the hole of the paper
to see how long it is and to see whether
most heavily weighted questions are and
that way you can plan your time more
efficiently and make sure that you don't
run out of time so right before an exam
when everyone is coming up the levels of
stress and pressure are really really
high and it's so easy to fall into that
hype of getting really really anxious
and so however tempting it can be to go
through your notes and talk with your
peers about how nervous you off the exam
really do not because it gets you into a
really bad state of mind what I would do
is either bring a book and read this
straight beforehand or agree with some
friends that we were going to talk but
not really recommend going to the toilet
before an exam make sure that you eat a
proper breakfast it's good to keep your
hair off of your face because in
practice I just find that you get less
distracted another important thing to do
is wear something that you feel
successful and confident and comfortable
in this will differ from person to
person but I like to wear something
quite smart and formal but something
that is equally very comfortable for me
is try your very best to stay calm if
something comes up which you're really
not very sure about what do you think is
difficult
honestly just move on do not let it
distract you and come back to it at the
end if I come across a question that I'm
not sure about and that I want to come
back to at the end then I will just draw
a circle around the question number to
see the questions at first glance when
you go back to chat similarly if I write
something and I'm really not sure about
my answer or I just want to double-check
it if there's a calculation then to make
it easy for me to find out I will just
do a star like an Asterix next to it
when it comes to essay questions
I really recommend spending time
thinking about which ones you are going
to write and then when I'm choosing
these questions I will just jot down
very very brief notes or just key words
for things that I think I could talk
about means that I'm more likely to
choose the right questions for me so if
you're writing a longer answer when it's
for something like Business Studies or
science or geography not necessarily
typically an essay based subjects but
you do have sections and questions where
you do need to write a long paragraph
then I really recommend just bullet
pointing a mini plan to make sure that
it's a coherent answer and that you're
not going to be waffling one-minute
usually equals by mark so if it's a six
more question you don't want to spend
time waffling and writing when you could
just get all of the key points down in a
really coherent and quick way okay so in
science if you start to run out of time
I recommend just bullet pointing your
answers as long as you get all of the
key information down that's the main
thing at the beginning of the exam I
really recommend asking for more paper
then as opposed to you waiting until you
run out of paper always make sure that
you've got at least two pieces more than
you think you will need that's why
you're all of thumb and then you don't
waste time putting your hand up during
the exam if the exam is an answer
booklet kind of style then I ideally
would leave 15 to 20 minutes to check at
the end at least and then for an essay
subject I would leave at least 5 minutes
but ideally around 50 my 5 lost tips
then relate to checking your paper if
you do have enough time it's really
really really great to go over
calculations and redo these just to make
sure that you didn't make any silly
errors so what I really recommend doing
when you finish with time to chat is
just going through and Counting the page
numbers so going page 1
page two page three and making sure that
all of them at that equally going to the
front of the booklet where it tells you
all of the question numbers and counting
through the questions to make sure that
you answer them it can also be good when
checking your work to check for words
you can't properly read just to make
sure that the examiner can knows exactly
what you're talking about if you find a
word that isn't completely clear then
just write it again above the word so
that the examiner knows a little you
check your key terms and make sure that
you have spelt them correctly and then
lastly reread the questions when you're
checking through your answers just to
make sure that you actually properly
answered the question really hope that
this video was helpful and concise and I
hope that you have a productive week and
that the rest of your exams very
incredibly and that you do as well as
you deserve to do